Usually it's the graduate engineers and working professionals who prepare for the examination to be a software developer. But here is a prodigy: Ronil Shah, a standard five student of EuroSchool in Ahmedabad, has become a software developer at the age of 10.

Shah scored 100 per cent in JAVA Standard Edition 6 Programmer Certified Professional examination conducted by the US-based Oracle University. He is one of the youngest achievers from India to receive this certificate.

Shah's success story is extraordinary for other reasons as well. He completed the 2 hour 56 minutes test in 18 minutes and cleared it in the first attempt, in the online global examination held on September 22.

The boy is also one of the youngest achievers to hold such a certification and secure 100 per cent marks this year.

Now, aptly called a JAVA champion, Shah started learning computers when he was just four. He first learnt basics in computers, and when he was in standard one, he developed love for animation, coral draw, C, C++ in computers.

The certification course recognises Shah as a software developer. The JAVA certification is usually undertaken by software professionals working in the field of engineering or Information Technology.

Shah's fascination for programming and coding is evident as he is one of the only three 10-year-olds at his local training academy Royal Technosoft private limited institution.

"His thinking and analytical skills are as developed as that of an engineer or any other software professional," Ronil's father Biren Shah told dna,

Ronil after learning C++ started learning JAVA in his computer institute. "He wants to learn about robotics now and if he learns well, we will take him for robotics exam in Mumbai next year as well," the senior Shah said.

Ronil Shah, said, love for computers and constant practice helped him crack the difficult exam. "I developed so much love for computers that I started learning animation, coding programming after standard 1. I took holiday to practise for JAVA standard edition 6 program exam. I used to reach my computer institute to practise at11.30am and come home by 6pm. That is how I managed to complete my online exam in 18 minutes."

He said most of those who appeared for the online exam along with him were older.

"I am happy with my achievements and I wish to learn more about robotics, advance JAVA, iphone and android etc."